# drake-iiwa-driver

This repository contains the application code used to communicate with
the KUKA iiwa are from Drake.  Communicating with the arm requires two
pieces, a Java application to run on the KUKA Sunrise cabinet, and an
local C++ application communicating with the cabinet using the FRI
protocol.

The KUKA control cabinet has two network interfaces which are
configured with static IP addresses.  Both will need to be connected
to communicate with the arm.

 - X66: 172.31.1.147/16 -- This interface is used by Sunrise Workbench to load new software onto the controller.
 - KONI: 192.170.10.2/24 -- This is the interface which FRI clients communicate over.  That's not in the reserved IP space, so it could potentially cause a conflict if you happen to want to contact a host in that subnet.

Selecting the command mode to use for the arm (position vs. torque) is
done by starting a different Java application on the arm
(DrakeFRIPositionDriver vs. DrakeFRITorqueDriver).  The C++ driver
will detect which mode the FRI connection is in and send commands
appropriately.

## Sunrise Workbench

Provisioning the IIWA arm must be done from Sunrise Workbench.

The computer running Sunrise Workbench must be configured with an
address which can communicate with 172.31.1.147/16, and which is
connected to the X66 port.

### Installing Sunrise Connectivity Software
In order to use FRI to drive the arms additional software must be installed. In the DVD's that were shipped to you their should be one called "Media". It should contain files with names like 0000288631_00_KUKA Sunrise.FRI 1.13_1.13.0_B6_C358496.zip. These are Java packages. In order to use them when developing the Sunrise Workbench Application they must be installed. In kuka speak these are called "software options". In the SunriseWorkbench documentation (1.11) Section 10.5.1 details how to install software options. The basic steps are

  - In dropdown menu **Help->Install new software**
  - In the rop right of the **Work with*- box click **Add**
  - Click **Archive*- and navigate to where the aforementioned zip file is.
  - Hit **Ok*- and then select that software option when it appears with checkbox.
  - Keep hitting **next*- until it is installed.
  - Make sure to restart SunriseWorkbench when prompted.

### Creating the Java Application

TODO(sam.creasey) Can I just zip up a project/workspace?

 - File -> New -> SunriseProject
   - IP address of the controller can be left at 172.31.1.147
   - Create new project
   - Project Name: DrakeFRIDriver
   - Topology template: LBR iiwa 14 R820
   - Media Flange: Medien-Flansch Touch pneumatisch
   - Create Application
   - Source folder: whatever
   - Package: drake_fri
   - Name: DrakeFRIDriver

 - In "Package Explorer", select StationSetup.cat
   - select the "software" tab at the bottom of the editing window (leave anything checked which already is). Also add the following software
   - Direct Servo Motion Extension (might not be needed?)
   - Fast Robot Interface
   - Smart Servo Motion Extension
   - Save (Ctrl-S)

 - In "Package Explorer", select SafetyConfiguration.sconf
   - Customer PSM
    - Uncheck row 1 "External EMERGENCY STOP"
    - Uncheck row 2 "Operator Protection",
    - Uncheck row 3 "Safety Stop"

 - Copy the Java source code for DrakeFRIPositionDriver and DrakeFRITorqueDriver.
  - KUKA changed the spelling of the Java FRI interface as of Sunrise OS version 1.11.  The appropriate sources files can be found in either kuka-driver/sunrise_1.7 or kuka-driver/sunrise_1.11  (NOTE: The sunrise_1.7 version is no longer actively tested, as I don't have any cabinets still running the older version of the software).
  - Copy DrakeFRIPositionDriver.java and DrakeFRITorqueDriver to DrakeFRIDriver/src/drake_fri (make sure Sunrise sees the update, you may need to import the files into the project).  You can remove any exising DrakeFRIDriver.

 - In "Package Explorer", select StationSetup.cat
   - Installation
     - Push "Install" (this will not actually install the application, but it will wipe the existing configuration of the KUKA cabinet and replace it with yours).  It will take a few minutes, and eventually will reboot the controller.

 - Press the "sync" button.  It's on the toolbar at the top, 5th from the right.  It looks a bit like a square with a couple of arrows over it (though it doesn't look much like this).  This will install the application.
   - Execute

## C++ driver

**The build for the C++ driver depends on lcm and drake-lcmtypes, so
  it must be compiled as a component in a superbuild.**

Once Sunrise Workbench is provisioned, you'll need to configure the
system which will communicate directly with the KONI interface.  This
system must be configured for the IP address 192.170.10.200 (netmask
/24, or 255.255.255.0) (this can be changed in the Java applications).
KUKA recommends directly attaching the computer to the KONI port
instead of using a switch.  Some network interfaces (particularly some
Intel models) have issues when cabled directly to the KONI port (problems
include link flapping up/down repeatedly).

On the SmartPad, turn the key switch, and choose the "AUT" mode, then
turn the key switch back. Choose either "DrakeFRITorqueDriver" or
"DrakeFRIPositionDriver" from "Application". Press the green "Play"
button on the left sidebar of the SmartPad.

Next, build the driver program to communicate with the iiwa arm using
FRI, and with the controlling application using LCM.  Compiling this
project will output a single program in the build directory called
"kuka_driver".  Running it with no arguments will connect to the IIWA
at it's default address and port (192.170.10.2, port 30200), negotiate
LCM into the command state, and report the IIWA status via LCM.

This repository is configured with a private git submodule for the
KUKA FRI source code.  If you do not have access to that repository,
you will need to install your own version of the FRI source:

```
cd kuka-fri
unzip /path/to/your/copy/of/FRI-Client-SDK_Cpp.zip
patch -p1 < ../fri_udp_connection_file_descriptor.diff
```

The patch above applies correctly to the FRI 1.7 and 1.11 source.
Other versions have not been tested.

An application wishing to control the arm should listen to LCM for
status updates and command the joints appropriately in response.
